# efficient-privacy-preserving-rank-based-keyword-search-method

With data being stored more in the cloud, we start worrying more about data theft and data getting leaked. Alongside this we also need to make sure we have efficiency when executing the queries to fetch the documents. We cannot leave the cloud storage as vulnerable therefore, best practices are to encrypt the data that is sent to the virtual storages. However, because of this we end up having a trade-off between computation time and security. Having a method of easy encryption and storing documents in an isolated manner is an easy solution to this problem and yield fast throughput and a decent security. That is the aim in this project, to develop a fast efficient search technique for files in the stored in the cloud.

Large organizations that generate huge amounts of data prefer to store it on cloud storages. For a data center managing that cloud, it faces multiple challenges. The challenges include but are not limited to scaling the data, protecting and securing the data, efficient storage and retrieval and others. When companies give their data, there is always a fear that the information stored may get leaked, and to reduce the data theft cloud companies prefer encrypting the data. Although encryption to a certain extent does prevent information leakage, it increases the latency in document retrieval because of the time taken due to encrypt and decrypt the documents. Also, when the data in the document is encrypted, the information stored in the document becomes untraceable as well. To elaborate, if the are some documents that had sports as a common identifier, they could be displayed when a query for sports is sent. However, by encrypting the data of the documents as well, this ranking becomes difficult and finding similarities among documents is not possible. Aside from this, with rise in amount of data, the amount of time taken to retrieve data increases exponentially.

Specification
There are two separate parts in the model. The first is to store the data as storage. The second is to be able to search for the documents if uploaded. Since we are focusing on only user specific documents, the user information must be known.
This is done at time of storing the data. So is a user is storing the data, some information such as company name or username which is unique must be provided. Following this, the data to be stored is submitted.
While searching, the unique ID must be known as well and should be given as well while searching. This ID is unique to the company. After the ID is known the data searched should be entered as a query. This makes clustering and retrieval easier. The user does not know the encryption or decryption pattern nor the ranking methods used. The user should see list of relevant documents associated to the query.

